				KGuitar
			A KDE tabulature editor

(C) 2000 by GreyCat <yakshin@glasnet.ru>

KGuitar is basically a guitar tabulature editor for K Desktop
Environment. It's much more than just a tab editor. It's features are:


* Free GPLed program;

* K Desktop Environment GUI;

* Powerful and convenient tabulature editing, including many effects
and classical note score editing for classic instrument players;

* Full and very customizable MIDI to tabulature import and export;

* Support of extra data formats, such as ASCII tabulatures or popular
programs' format, such as Guitar Pro's or TablEdit;

* Chord fingering construction tools - chord finder & chord analyzer;

* Highly customizable to suit a lot of possible instruments (not only
6-stringed guitars, and even not only guitars), including drum tracks,
lyrics and other MIDI events.


Well, right now KGuitar is in very alpha state and doesn't support
everything stated. However, it already features a nice tabulature
editor, though not ultimately powerful, loading/saving its own format (kg
files) and all the chord construction tools.

As the KDE style docs aren't available, I'd try to give some
directions on usage of KGuitar here:

MAIN WINDOW
===========

It's a generic KDE application that you're familiar with. All the
File/Edit/etc menus are here. The most interesting thing is what is
below the menus :) It's a tab editor area.

Right now the tab editor understands only keyboard operations. So,
the keys are:

Left, Right - move the cursor on previous/next column;

Up, Down - move the cursor on previous/next string;

W - reWind the cursor to the first column (cakewalk-style);

Number keys - edit the fret number in cursor position. To enter simple
one-digited fret number just press the apropriate key. To enter
2-digit fret number (such as 12, for example), press keys "1" and "2"
consequentally - they'll add up to the 12 fret number. Note that
you'll be unable to enter invalid fret numbers - for example 36th fret
on the 24 fret guitar.

Delete - deletes the current fret number in cursor position.

Ctrl+Delete - deletes the whole current column.

Ctrl+Up, Ctrl+Down - if there is a fret number in cursor postion, move
the cursor up or down taking the number with it, trying to maintain
the tone frequency. Thus, on a normal 6-string guitar tuning, if
you'll pull the "0" from the 1st string down, it will become "5" on the
2nd string (it will still sound as E note). This way you can manually
optimize the fret fingerings without changing the sounding.

"+" and "-" keys (recommended to use keypad ones) - doubles or halves
the note length. Note lengths are shown as that familiar note-style
lines. That is:

       No note line			whole
       Short note line			1/2
       Long note line			1/4
       Long line+1 horizontal bar	1/8
       Long line+2 horizontal bars	1/16
       Long line+3 horizontal bars	1/32

That were the basic editing tools. That's enough to create pretty
complex tabs.

CHORD CONSTRUCTION
==================

For the guitarist's convenience, there is a fast chord construction
tool - a chord finder & analyzer. Just use "Insert/Chord" menu or
chord toolbar button to run it. It's pretty self-explanatory for
anybody who knows music theory, but I still want to do some notes.

To find a chord by name, just build its name in the left selection
boxes. This way, if you want to enter, for example, "Esus2/7" chord,
select "E" in the first box, "sus2" in the second and "7" in the
third.

For more complex tasks, such as chord with step alterations, like
Bm/5+, use step diagram. If you want to raise or lower a particular
step - just select a "+" or "-" there. If you want to mute a
particulat step - select "x" there. Everything's simple.

When you've got your chord entered, you'll get a lot of fingering
methods in the bottom box. Select one with a mouse there and press the
OK button - this chord would be automatically entered in the tab
editor.

Using chord analyzer is even simplier. Just set the fingering using
the big chord diagram and instantly get the result in the box near
it. It would read all somewhat reasonable naming of a given chord.

SONG PROPERTIES
===============

Each song should have some properties - title, author name, etc. All
these things can be set up in File/Properties dialog.

Each track also has some properties. These can be accessed via
Edit/Track menu. The things that could be set up there include:

Title - title of the track; would be used in MIDI;
MIDI Channel, Bank and Patch numbers - self-explanatory;

For guitar track:

Number of string and frets - parameters of used guitar;
Tuning - the note of open string sounding. Tuning could be set up
manually or quickly selected from a library. 

Moreover, one can save and load current song in the .kg files. All
properties are also saved into the files.